1. The population of a community is known to increase at a rate proportional to the number of people present at time t. If an initial population P0 has doubled in 5 years, how long will it take to triple? To quadruple?
$$ P_t = P_0\cdot e^{kt} $$
$$ 2 = 1\cdot e^{k(5)} $$
$$ \ln|2| = 5k $$
$$ .13863 = k $$
$$ 3 = e^{.13863t} $$
$$ 7.9 = t $$
$$ 4 = e^{.13863t} $$
$$ 10 = t $$


3. The population of a town grows at a rate proportional to the population present at time t. The initial population of 500 increases by 15% in 10 years. What will the population be in 30 years? How fast is the population growing at t = 30?
$$ P_t = P_0\cdot e^{kt} $$
$$ 575 = 500\cdot e^{10k} $$
$$ .0139762 = k $$
$$ P_t = 500\cdot e^{.0139762t} $$
$$  P_t = 500\cdot e^{.0139762(30)}  $$
$$ P_t = 760 $$

5. The radioactive isotope of lead, Pb-209, decays at a rate proportional to the amount present at time t and has a half-life of 3.3 hours. If 1 gram of this isotope is present initially, how long will it take for 90% of the lead to decay?
$$ \frac{dA}{dt} = kA $$
$$ \int\frac{dA}{A} = \int kdt $$
$$ \ln|A| = kt + C $$
$$ A = C_1\cdot e^{kt} $$
$$ A_0 = C_1 = 1 $$
$$ .5 = 1\cdot e^{k(1)} $$
$$ \ln(.5) = k $$
$$ -.693147 = k $$
$$ .1 = e^{-.69\cdot t} $$
$$ \ln(.1) = -.69\cdot t $$
$$ 3.337 = t $$
3.337 half lifes times 3.3 hours per half life = 11 hrs

9. When a vertical beam of light passes through a transparent medium, the rate at which its intensity I decreases is proportional to I(t), where t represents the thickness of the medium (in feet). In clear seawater, the intensity 3 feet below the surface is 25% of the initial intensity $I_0$ of the incident beam. What is the intensity of the beam 15 feet below the surface?
$$ \frac{dI}{dt} = kI $$
$$ \int\frac{dI}{kI} = \int dt $$
$$ \frac{\ln|I|}{k} = t + C $$
$$ I(t) = I_0\cdot e^{kt} $$
$$ 25 = 100\cdot e^{3k} $$
$$ \ln\frac14 = 3k $$
$$ \frac{\ln\frac14}{3}=k $$
$$ -.4620981 = k $$
$$ I(t) = 100\cdot e^{15\cdot.462 } $$
$$ I(t) = .1 = .1\% $$
11. Archaeologists used pieces of burned wood, or charcoal, found at the site to date prehistoric paintings and drawings on walls and ceilings in a cave in Lascaux, France. See FIGURE 2.7.8. Use the information on page 75 to determine the approximate age of a piece of burned wood, if it was found that 85.5% of the C-14 found in living trees of the same type had decayed.. 

Half-Life of C-14 is 5730 years

$$ A_t = A_0\cdot e^{kt} $$
$$ 50 = 100\cdot e^{k} $$
$$ -.693147 = k $$
$$ 14.5 = 100\cdot e^{-.69t} $$
$$ 2.785876 = t $$
$$ t\cdot 5730 = 15,963 $$
13. A thermometer is removed from a room where the temperature is $70^oF$ and is taken outside, where the air temperature is $10^oF$. After one-half minute the thermometer reads $50^oF$. What is the reading of the thermometer at t = 1 min? How long will it take for the thermometer to reach $15^oF$?
$$ T = T_A-C\cdot e^{-kt} $$
$$ 70 = 10-C\cdot e^{-k(0)} $$
$$ C = -60 $$
$$ 50 = 10+60\cdot e^{-.5k} $$
$$ .8109302 = k $$
$$ T = 10 + 60\cdot e^{.81(1)} $$
$$ T =  $$

```ad-note
Wrong way. See question below
```
15. A small metal bar, whose initial temperature was $20^oC$, is dropped into a large container of boiling water. How long will it take the bar to reach $90^oC$ if it is known that its temperature increased $2^o$ in 1 second? How long will it take the bar to reach $98^oC$?
$$ \frac{dT}{dt} = k(T_A-T) $$
$$ \int\frac{dT}{T_A-T} = \int kdt $$
$$ -\ln|T_A-T| = kt + C $$
$$ T_A-T = e^{-kt-C} $$
$$ T = T_A-C\cdot e^{-kt} $$
$$ 20 = T_A-C\cdot e^{-k(0)} $$
$$ 20 = T_A-C $$
$$ 22 = T_A-C\cdot e^{-k(1)} $$
```ad-question
```
17. A thermometer reading $70^oF$ is placed in an oven preheated to a constant temperature. Through a glass window in the oven door, an observer records that the thermometer read $110^oF$ after 1/2 minute and $145^oF$ after 1 minute. How hot is the oven?
$$ T = T_A-C\cdot e^{^{-kt}} $$
$$ 70 = 70-C\cdot e^{k(0)} $$
$$ -1 = C $$
$$ 110 = T_A+e^{.5k} $$
```ad-question
```
19. A dead body was found within a closed room of a house where the temperature was a constant $70^oF$. At the time of discovery, the core temperature of the body was determined to be $85^oF$. One hour later a second measurement showed that the core temperature of the body was $80^oF$. Assume that the time of death corresponds to t = 0 and that the core temperature at that time was $98.6^oF$. Determine how many hours elapsed before the body was found.
$$ T = T_A-C\cdot e^{-kt} $$
$T_A = 70$
$$ 98.6 = 70 - C\cdot e^{-k(0)} $$
$$ -28.6 = C $$
21. A tank contains 200 liters of fluid in which 30 grams of salt is dissolved. Brine containing 1 gram of salt per liter is then pumped into the tank at a rate of 4 L /min; the well-mixed solution is pumped out at the same rate. Find the number A(t) of grams of salt in the tank at time t
$$ \frac{dx}{dt} = (R_{in} - R_{out}) $$
$R_{in} = 4g/min$ 
$R_{out} = \frac{x}{200}\cdot 4L/min$
$$ \frac{dx}{dt} = (4 - \frac{x}{50}) $$
$$ \int\frac{dx}{4-\frac x{50}} = \int dt $$
$$ -50\ln|4-\frac{x}{50}| = t $$
$$ (4-\frac{x}{50})^{-50} = e^{t} $$
$$ 4-\frac{x}{50} = e^{\frac{-t}{50}} $$
$$ x = -50e^{\frac{-t}{50}}C+200 $$
$$  30 = -50C+200 $$
$$ 3.4 = C $$
 $$ x = -170e^{\frac{-t}{50}}+200 $$


#### Midterm Questions
1. 1 Volt Battery is connected to an RL-Series Circuit in which the inductance is 11 henry and the resistance is 10 Ohms. Determine the Current I at time t=2 if the initial current is 1 ampere I(0) = 1. (Voltage Drops around the loop must be equalt to a voltage source along the way. The voltage drop for the inductor with L inductance is $U_L = L\frac{dP}{dt}$, for the resistor with R resistance $U_R = RI$
