1. The solution to the initial value problem: $(1+y)dy = e^xdx$, where $y(0)=-4$:
$$ y + \frac12y^2 = e^x + C $$
$$ 0 = e^{-4} + C $$
$$ y + \frac12y^2 = e^x-\frac1{e^4} $$
```ad-warning
title: IDK how to complete

Simplify this shit somehow
```
2. Given the DE $x'-x\sin(t) = 2te^{-\cos t}$ with the initial condition x(0)=7, then x(18) would be
$$ \frac{dx}{dt} - \sin(t)x = 2te^{-\cos t} $$
$P(t) = -\sin(t)$
$Q(t) = 2te^{-\cos t}$
$\mu(t) = \cos(t)$
$$ x(t) = e^{-\cos(t)}\cdot \int e^{\cos t}\cdot 2te^{-\cos t}dx + C\cdot e^{-\cos t} $$
$$ x(t) = e^{-\cos(t)}\cdot\int2tdt + C\cdot e^{-\cos t} $$
$$ x(t) = e^{-\cos t}\cdot (t^2 + C) $$
$$ 7 = \frac1e(C) $$
$$ 7e = C $$
$$ x(18) = 2.588443(324 + 19.027973) $$
$$ x(18) = 887.91 $$
```ad-danger
title: Wrong

answer is 177
```
3. The non-exact differential equation $(x+y)dx-xdy=0 can be converted to an exact differential equation using the integrating factor
$$ \frac{\partial M}{\partial y} = \frac{\partial N}{\partial x} $$
$$ 1 = -1 $$
$$ \mu_1 = \frac{2}{-x} $$
$$ \mu = e^{\int\frac2{-x}} = e^{-2\ln|x|} = \frac1{x^2} $$
```ad-success
title: Correct
```
4. The three roots of the characteristic equation for the linear differential equation $y'''-11y''+28y' = 0$
$$ r^3-11r^2+28r = 0 $$
$$ r(r^2-11r+28) = r(r-7)(r-4) $$
$r_1 = 0$
$r_2 = 7$
$r_3 = 4$
```ad-success
```
5. Which of the following is a Bernoulli equation?
	- $\frac{dy}{dx} = \ln(y)$
	- $e^ydx = 5-\sin(y)dy$
	- $3dy = \sin(x)(y^2-y)dx$
	- $(x^2+y^2)dy - 2xydx = 0$
	- $\frac{dy}{dx} = \frac{y^2}{x^2} + \frac{\cos x}{\cos y}$

```ad-danger
title: Wrong

I picked E. its C
```
6. Given a force harmonic oscillator governed by the differential equation $x''(t)+16x(t) = 4.92\cos(\gamma t)$ resonance would occur if $\gamma$ equals
```ad-warning
title: IDK how to complete

wtf is resonance?
```

7. For the differential equation
$$ y' = \frac{\tan y}{x} $$
the Existence-Uniqueness Theorem guarantees the existence of a unique solution whose graph passes through
```ad-warning
title: IDK how to complete

pretty sure this is some bs we haven't learned yet
```

8. The population of a certain town is known to increase at a rate proportional to the current population. If the population doubles every 13 years, and the current population is 34481 , then the population in 28 years will be
$$ \int\frac{dx}{dt} = \int kx $$
$$ \int\frac{dx}{x} = \int kdt $$
$$ \ln|x| = kt + C $$
$$ P = P_0e^{kt} $$
$$ 68962 = 34481e^{13k} $$
$$ 2 = e^{13k} $$
$$ .053319 = k $$
$$ P = 34481e^{(28)(.053319)} $$
$$ P = 153445 $$
9. Given the IVP with the differential equation $\frac{dy}{dx} = xy^{\frac12}$ and initial condition y(0) = 0, one can find the solution $y(x) = \frac{x^4}{16}$. Which one ( and only one ) of the following statements is true?
	- $y = e^{2x}$ is also true
	- existence and uniqueness means there are no other solutions.
	- this is not a valid initial value problem (IVP).
	- the solution $y = \frac{x^4}{16}$ is not valid at $y=0$
	- $y(x) = 0$ is also a solution
$$ \int \frac{dy}{y^{\frac12}} = \int xdx $$
```ad-success
guessed E
```

10. A 1 kg mass, ,  is attached to a spring  and the entire system is then submerged in a fluid that imparts a damping force numerically equal to 14 times the instantaneous velocity, $C = 14N\cdot s/m$. If the spring  constant, k ,  is equal to 49 N/m, determine the position of the mass at 8 seconds if it is initially released from rest from a point 0.3 meters above the equilibrium position. Round your answer to the nearest thousandth of a meter

```ad-warning
title: IDK how to complete this

pretty sure we havent learned this
```

11. Given a 3rd order, linear ordinary differential equation
$$ a_3(x)y''' + a_2y''+a_1y'+a_0y = g(x) $$
where each and   are continuous on some interval I and $a_3(x)\neq 0$ for every x on interval I, then a unique solution is guaranteed to exist on interval I for the initial conditions
	- $y'(x_0) = b_1, y(x_0) = b_0$, where the $b_i$s are constants
	- $y(x_2) = b_2, y(x_1) = b_1, y(x_0) = b_0$ where bis and xis are constants
	- $y'''(x_0) = b_3, y''(x_0)=b_2, y'(x_0) = b_1, y(x_0) = b_0$
	- $y(x_0) = b$
	- $y''(x_0) = b_2, y'(x_0)=b_1, y(x_0) = b_0$

```ad-note
answer is E
```

12. The solution to the associated homogeneous differential equation of $y'''+8y = 2x-5+9e^{-2x}$ would be $y_c = C_1e^{-2x}+C_2e^x\cos(\sqrt3x)+C_3e^x\sin(\sqrt3x)$ Therefore the  proper trial solution form from the method of undetermined coefficients would be
	- $Ax^2+Bx+Cxe^{-2x}$
	- $Ax+B+Cxe^{-2x}$
	- $Ax+B+Ce^{-2x}$
	- $Ax+B+Ce^{-2x^2}$
	- $Ax^2+Bx+C+Dxe^{-2x}$
```ad-success
B
```

13. For what values of the constants  A and B  is the following equation exact?
$$ [(x+A)e^x\sin(y)+\cos(y)]dx + x[e^x\cos y+B\sin(y)]dy = 0 $$
$M = [(x+A)e^x\sin(y)+\cos(y)]$
$N = [xe^x\cos y+Bx\sin(y)]$
$$ \frac{\partial M}{\partial y} = \frac{\partial N}{\partial x} $$
$$ (x+A)e^x\cos(y) - \sin(y) = (xe^x + e^x)\cos(y)+B\sin(y) $$
$A = 1$
$B = -1$
```ad-success
```

14. Given the differential equation $y''+64=0$ with the initial conditions y(0)=9 and y'(0)=4 then y(1) = 
$$ r^2 + 64 = 0 $$
$r = 8i$
$$ y = C_1\cos(8x)+C_2\sin(8x) $$
$$ y' = C_1 $$
15. The differential equation
$$ \frac{d^2y}{dx^2}+6x(\frac{dy}{dx})^3=e^{\cos x} $$
- Would Be
	- a 2nd order, linear, non-homogeneous ordinary differential equation
	- . a 6th order, linear, homogeneous ordinary differential equation
	- a 6th order, npn-linear, non-homogeneous partial differential equation
	- a 2nd order, non- linear, non-homogeneous ordinary differential equatio
	- a 2nd order, non-linear, homogeneous ordinary differential equation

```ad-success
D
```

16. Using variation of parameters solve the differential equation
$$ y''-2y'+y = \frac{e^t}{1+t^2} $$
Homo Part:
$$ r^2-2r+1 = 0 $$
$r_1 = r_2 = 1$
$$ y_c = C_1e^{x}+C_2xe^x $$
Other Part
$$
\begin{pmatrix}
e^x & xe^x \\
e^x & e^x + xe^x
\end{pmatrix}
$$
$$ W = (e^{2x}+\cancel{xe^{2x}})-\cancel{xe^{2x}} $$
$$ W = e^{2x} $$
$$ u_1 = \int\frac{-xe^x\cdot \frac{e^x}{1+x^2}}{e^{2x}} = \int\frac{-x\cdot\frac1{1+x^2}\cdot\cancel{e^{2x}}}{\cancel{e^{2x}}} $$
$$ u_1 = \int\frac{-x}{1+x^2}dx $$
$$ u_1 = -\frac12\ln|1+x^2| $$
---------------------------- u2 -------------------------------
$$ u_2 = \int\frac{e^x\cdot \frac{e^x}{1+x^2}}{e^{2x}} $$
$$ u_2 = \int\frac1{1+x^2}dx $$
$$ u_2 = \tan^{-1}x $$
-------------------------------------------- yp ------------------------------------
$$ y_p = -\frac12\ln|1+x^2|\cdot e^x + \tan^{-1}x\cdot xe^x $$
$$ y = y_c+y_p $$
17. Find the general solution to the differential equation
$$ y''''+12y''+9y = 9+18x+27x^2 $$
$$ r^4 + 12r^2 + 9 $$
