### The Rule: 
Pick any number. If the number is odd. Multiply by 3 and add 1. if the number is even. divide by 2. repeat these steps on the next number. keep repeating these rules.

### It's Many Names:
- Collatz Conjecture
- Ulam Conjecture
- Kakutani's Problem
- Thwaites Conjecture
- Hasse's Algorithm
- Syracuse Problem
- 3x+1

### More Info:
The numbers you get from the rule are called Hailstone numbers because they go up and down like hail in a cloud. Yet eventually they all reach one. and when a number reaches 1 it gets stuck in a loop of 1, 4, 2, 1 ... .

The path numbers take to reach one is completely random. if you take the log of a large number and remove its slope its like flipping a coin. heads the line goes up. tails it goes down.

by recording the leading digit of each number in a sequence. and then doing that for many numbers and recording it in a histogram. If you do this you find that 1 is by far the most common leading digit. with 2 the second 3 the third and so on up to 9. 30% of all numbers start with one. this is a phenomenon that can be seen in many other situations as well such as; populations of countries, value of companies, physical constants, fibonnaci numbers. It is known as [[Benford's Law]]


### Properties:
Total Stopping time:
- The time it takes for the number to reach 1
- Recorded in "steps"

### History:
People felt this was something invented by the soviets to slow down US science.

Jeffery Lagarias is the world authority on 3x+1

mathmaticians have brute force tried every number all the way up to $2^{68}$ and all of those numbers hav eventually come back down to 1. Based on this mathmaticians have estimated that any loop other than 4,2,1 must be at least 186 billion numbers long

##### Attempts at Proofs:
One way they tried was a scatterplot with all the seed numbers on the x axis and a number from each seeds sequence on the y axis. if you are able to show that in every sequence there is a number that is smaller than the original seed then you have proven the conjecture. because you know that whatever number you pick will get smaller because it aas a seed must have gotten smaller. proof by induction.

in 1976 Riho Terras was able to show that almost all collatz sequences reach a point below their initial value. in 1979 it was determined almost every number is below $x^{0.869}$. in 1994 that was lowered even more to $x^{0.7925}$ 

Terry Tao showed that almost all numbers have an arbitrarily small number in their sequence. 


The biggest problem is that there is infinite amount of numbers and realistically we  can't check all of them by brute force so we need to find some other way to prove the conjecture


### Analysis:
you would think it wierd that each number goes to 1 when odd numbers are increased by a factor of 3 and even numbers are only divided by two. However when you look closer you realise that every odd number is increased to an even number so it is immediatley divided by 2. So the step is at most $\frac{3x+1}{2}$. for large numbers the +1 becomes insignificant so we can say each number increases by a mximum of $\frac32$ times. 

Now lets look at the average amount a number can increase by. 50% of the time dividing by 2 brings you back to an odd number. 25% of the time you can divide by 4 before getting to an odd number. an 8th of the time you can divide by 8 before reaching an odd number. a 16th of the time you can divide by 16. and so on. So on average you only increase by a factr of only $\frac34$ which is less then one. 

What are some cases where a number does not reach 1? there are 2 cases. one where the number grows to infinity. and one where it enters its own isolated loop.

##### Including Negative Numbers:
There are 3 independent loops of numbers. and they start at low values: -1, -5, -17 